RESEARCH EXPERIENCE
===================

Embedded consultant with the New York State Department of Health. I am
responsible for leading a team of analysts in evaluating care management
in New York State and advising policy makers on how use these programs
to improve the health of vulnerable New Yorkers. This includes working
with external evaluators and internal stakeholders to understand and
improve the delivery of care management services.

Evaluation responsibilities include Care Management programs
administered by the Medicaid Managed Care Plans (plan-led) and Health
Homes. Plan-led care management programs are an intervention for people
with moderately complex health care needs who may have higher than
average utilization of emergency and inpatient services. Health Homes
are a more intensive care management program for enrollees with highly
complex health care needs. Health Home enrollees have a history of high
utilization of emergency, high-cost services. Health Homes provide
continuous, integrated health care services to improve participant’s
health and well-being while reducing unnecessary utilization of
inpatient and emergency department services.

Accomplishments:

-   Monitored Emergency Department, Inpatient, and Primary Care
    utilization of Medicaid enrollees who agreed to receive care
    management services.

-   Monitored HEDIS quality metrics as listed in New York State’s SPA
    for the 1115 waiver program.

-   Developed a novel methodology to measure pre-post
    enrollee utilization.

-   Redesigned the Health Home - Care Management Assessment Reporting
    Tool (HH-CMART).

-   Developed the [Titanic Introduction To
    R](http://choens.github.io/titanic/) to introduce DOH research
    scientists to the R programming language.

Hornby Zeller Associates (HZA) is a consulting firm specializing in
child welfare, elder care, juvenile justice, and mental health. As a
policy analyst, I was responsible for developing research hypotheses and
methodologies. I was also responsible for providing support and
mentoring to less experienced staff. Other responsibilities include data
collection, management and analysis of research data and dissemination
of results.

Example projects:

-   Program / Systems Evaluation: Arkansas (IV-E Waiver), West Virginia
    (Jacob’s Law), Alaska (Mental Health Beneficiary Program)

-   Time Study: Virginia, Westchester County, Wisconsin

-   Accounting & Title IV-E Funding: Wisconsin, Georgia, Mississippi

Accomplishments:

-   Started an internship program and supervised intern.

-   Developed templates and processes to automate the production
    of reports.

-   Provided ongoing training and support for junior staff learning how
    to manage and structure administrative and research data in tools
    such as PostgreSQL, SQL Server, R and SPSS.

-   Mentored junior staff in of research methods and application of
    statistical tests.

-   Introduced the use of version control for analytic code resulting in
    more reliable, reproducible results.

Principal Investigator for an exploratory research project which
established the existence of homeless men and women with borderline
intellectual functioning in New York State homeless shelters.

Accomplishments:

-   Obtained IRB Approval.

-   Demonstrated the validity of the Mini Mental Status Exam to identify
    homeless adults with borderline intellectual functioning.

-   Recruited, trained and supervised a team of BSW students.

-   Interviewed over 150 homeless New Yorkers. Successfully identified
    homeless adults with a historical diagnosis of borderline
    intellectual functioning.

-   Presented results to the Assistant Commissioner of the Office of
    Mental Retardation and Developmental Disabilities[^1].

CLINICAL EXPERIENCE
===================

Delivered in-home services to Albany residents with mental retardation
and other developmental disabilities. Services included family support,
socialization skills and crisis counseling.

Worked with homeless guests to find housing and income in the form of
jobs or social services such as SSD. Addressed other needs on a
case-by-case basis. Developed a Guest Satisfaction Survey for the
shelter. Surveyed guests in the shelter during the winter of 2005 -
2006.

Supervised an outdoor experiential program for teens with developmental
disabilities and mental health diagnoses. Responsibilities included
staff supervision and program development. Implemented a unique peer
support program using conference calls. Led multi-day canoe trips on
Indian Lake. Led family / team building activities including low and
high ropes facilitation.

RESEARCH TOOLS
==============

<span>l l</span> <span>**Data Analysis:**</span> R, Python, SAS, SPSS,
Excel\
<span>**Data Management:**</span> PostgreSQL, MySQL, SQL Server, Access\
<span>**Reproducible Research:**</span> LaTeX, Sweave, knitr, Org-Mode\

EDUCATION
=========

<span>p<span>1.5in</span> p<span>2.125in</span>
p<span>.75in</span></span> Master of Social Work & The State University
of New York at Albany & Albany, NY 2007\
Bachelor of International Affairs & Georgia Institute of Technology &
Atlanta, GA 2002

Updated: 2015-02-03\
LaTeXversion of this document available at:
<https://github.com/Choens/Resume/>

[^1]: Now called the Office for People with Developmental Disabilities.
