To whom it may concern,

I would like to take this opportunity to apply for the Healthcare Data
Analyst / Programmer position I saw posted on the IPRO website. I am
applying for this position because I believe my background, experience
and computer skills make me an ideal candidate for this
position. There are two things I want you to know about me:

  1. I am an experienced policy analyst.
  2. I am a computer programmer.

The rest of this cover letter will connect these these facts to the
opem position and IPRO more broadly.


1. Policy Analyst
---------------------------------------- 

For the past seven years I have worked at Hornby Zeller Associates
(HZA), a human services consulting firm in Troy, NY. HZA specializes
in child welfare, elder care, juvenile justice and mental health. As a
senior policy analyst, I am involved in all aspects of HZA's work flow
from start to finish. I contribute to proposals, usually by developing
the research the methodology. I participate in both data collection,
and analysis. But my most import role is when I meet with our
stakeholders. Like IPRO, HZA helps state agencies implement complex
new programs. Success means more than writing a good
evaluation. Success is best achieved when decisions makers are
empowered to use the results found in the report to make decisions
that improve outcomes. I succeed because I am comfortable sitting at
the nexus of program implementation and evaluation.

Program implementation in the health care setting is similar to
program implementation in any other human services organization. In
both cases, policy decisions affect outcomes. Outcomes affect
people. A useful analysis is more than just statistically
significant. It has to help a program administrator make policy
decisions that positively affect clients. I would like to bring this
perspective and skill to my role at IPRO.

Recent projects include
(organized by type):

  * __Program / Systems Evaluation:__ Arkansas (IV-E Waiver), West
    Virginia (Jacob's Law), Alaska (Mental Health Beneficiary Program)
  * __Time-Studies:__ Virginia, Westchester County, NY, Wisconsin
  * __Title IV-E Funding:__ Wisconsin, Georgia, Mississippi

I want to highlight one recent project that highlights my experience
working with complex relational data. The Alaska Department of
Corrections (DOC) had anecdotal evidence that felons with mental
health problems recidivate at a higher rate than similar felons
without an mental health problems. HZA used state records from mental
health, child welfare, juvenile justice and the adult criminal justice
system to identify current and past felons with known mental health
histories. We developed a prospective study to look at a cohort of
felons. HZA's analysis shows that felons with a history of mental
health diagnoses are considerably more likely to return to DOC care in
the first 12 months after release and they do so more quickly than
their counterparts. We then provided the state with recommendations on
how the state could identify these individuals, giving the state the
ability to target these felons with additional services and community
resources upon release.


2. Computer Programmer
---------------------------------------- 

The changes required by the Affordable Care Act will require both
program implementation and programming. I believe my application is
made stronger by the fact that I am comfortable with both. The Alaska
DOC project I mentioned earlier is a good example of how computers and
program implementation often go hand in hand and how my ability to
connect the dots between program and computers contributes to a better
analysis. DOC wanted to reimplement supportive services for felons
with mental health challenges that were canceled during the tenure of
Sarah Palin. But, they wanted to implement the right services and they
wanted to target the right felons. The analysis required both data
management and statistics. The hard part was managing and structuring
the data. The analysis was comparatively easy.

We pulled data extracts from multiple state agencies. These extracts
were not designed to be cross-referenced and in many cases were
relational data tables pulled right out of their administrative data
system. I hosted the data on a local Postgres server and developed a
system to identify felons across data systems. We used these views to
build our statistical models. We were eventually able to show which
types of mental illness correlate with higher recidivism and we were
able to make concrete recommendations for the types of services we
thought would help prevent these individual from reentering DOC
care. We also taught the state how they could cross-reference these
systems so the state could effectively reproduce our research
results. More importantly, they could implement policy and software
changes to make it easier for this iinformation to flow into DOC so
the state could better target these supportive services to the felons
who need them most. 


Conclusion
----------------------------------------

I would like to schedule a time to discuss this position with you in
person. I am equal parts social worker, policy analyst and computer
programmer and I genuinely believe I can contribute to IPRO's
projects. I believe an analysis is most successful when it can be used
to make policy decisions that result in better outcomes. If I am
offered an opportunity to interview for this position, I would like to
discuss the types of outcomes you are looking to help the state
achieve and how these can be measured. I can be contacted at (518) 275
- 5984.

Thank you for your consideration.

-- Andy Choens
