To whom it may concern,

I would like to take this opportunity to apply for the Research
Analyst Position I saw posted on your website. I initially saw this
position posted on Linked-In. After reading about your organization's
mission and reviewing the technology stack used by your website, I
started writing this cover letter. I want this job because I believe
my background, experience and unusual skill-set give me the ability to
help NPP move closer to its strategic goals. There are three things I
want you to know about me:

  1. I am a social worker.
  2. I am an experienced policy analyst.
  3. I am a computer programmer.

The rest of this cover letter will connect these three facts to the
Research Analyst position and NPP's strategic goals.

1. I am a social worker.  
----------------------------------------

First and foremost, I am a social worker. I graduated from SUNY
Albany's School of Social Welfare in 2007. While in school, I focused
on macro social work. While traditional social work focuses on
creating change in individuals, macro social work focuses on
engendering change in organizations and communities. NPP helps
citizens understand the federal budget and by doing so make them more
active, responsible citizens. Many of today's political battles over
discretionary spending focus on social programs such as WIC, food
stamps, child welfare, etc. As a social worker, I am uniquely
qualified to discuss those issues as they pertain to the budget and
how these programs affect communities across our nation because I have
seen this impact first hand. While in school, I worked in a home less
shelter in upstate New York and helped homeless veterans apply for
Section 8 housing. Although I'm not an accountant, I have spent
considerable time working with state budgets. Last week, I worked with
officials from Mississippi. We discussed the impact of their Random
Moment Sampling plan on their ongoing efforts to increase their
Federal reimbursements under Title IV-E of the Social Security
Act. Two years ago, I developed a tool for the state of Minnesota that
enables the state to connect child welfare case load size to standard
CFSR outcomes. My tool helps decision makers identify which workers
benefit the most from increased resources, allowing the state to
allocate resources in a manner that is more efficient and effective.

Social programs and their costs are all too often reduced to dollar
signs and abstract talking points by both sides. And while these
programs do cost money and governments are not always the best
stewards of their financial resources, these programs have a direct
impact on American communities. I understand the impact of these
programs and I can explain this impact to others. I can also help NPP
connect spending to outcomes. As a citizen, I want to know how my
taxes are spent. I also want to know what the government accomplishes
when it spends that money and it is this latter piece that is often
missing from the discussion. 

2. I am an experienced policy analyst.
---------------------------------------- 

I am an experienced policy analyst. For the past seven years I have
worked at Hornby Zeller Associates (HZA), a human services consulting
firm in Troy, NY. HZA specializes in child welfare, elder care,
juvenile justice and mental health. As a senior policy analyst, I am
involved in all phases of projects from start to finish. This includes
writing proposals, developing the research methodology, collecting,
structuring and analyzing data and discussing the results with
stakeholders. Recent projects include (organized by type):

  * __Program / Systems Evaluation:__ Arkansas (IV-E Waiver), West
    Virginia (Jacob's Law), Alaska (Mental Health Beneficiary Program)
  * __Time-Studies:__ Virginia, Westchester County, NY, Wisconsin
  * __Title IV-E Funding:__ Wisconsin, Georgia, Mississippi

I want to highlight one recent project. The Alaska Department of
Corrections (DOC) had significant anecdotal evidence that felons with
mental health problems experience higher recidivism rates. HZA used
state records from mental health, child welfare, juvenile justice and
the adult criminal justice system to identify current and past felons
with known mental health histories. We developed a prospective study
to look at a cohort of felons. HZA's analysis shows that felons with a
history of mental health diagnoses are considerably more likely to
return to DOC care in the first 12 months after release and they do so
more quickly than their counterparts. We then provided the state with
recommendations on how the state could identify these individuals,
giving the state the ability to target these felons with additional
services and community resources upon release.

3. I am a computer programmer.
---------------------------------------- 

Finally, I am a programmer and all-around geek. Although I graduated
from Georgia Tech with a political science degree, my first major was
computer science. My technology skills have been an asset at every job
I have ever held. My database skills were put to the test when I built
HZA's system to cross-reference the data extracts from the state of
Alaska. These were data extracts composed of tables from state
administrative data systems. They were relational data structures and
not designed to be cross-referenced. I hosted the data on a local
Postgres server and developed a series of views for co-workers in our
Portland Maine office. During my time at HZA, I have pushed other
analysts to track their research process in a revision management
system. Although adoption levels vary, HZA now hosts an internal SVN
server. 

I am an unapologetic proponent of open, reproducible
research. Research intended to improve governmental accountability is
especially important and while the data itself can not always be
public, I believe the methodology and programming should be. In my
current position, I am not able to document and share the results of
my research in a manner that I believe is optimal. If hired by NPP, I
will promote research methods that are transparent and accessible to
the public. I believe giving the public access to analytic code is an
important part of holding government accountable. Public code and data
can be used by other researchers to confirm or refute the conclusions
of an analysis and can be used to promote fact based discussion,
rather than the usual litany of denials and empty ripostes.

I also want to stress my familiarity with your existing software
stack. This familiarity means I can hit the ground running. Jason
Leveille's bio-page indicates that NPP uses Postgres which is one of
several databases I am comfortable working with. Although I typically
work with R and Excel, I am familiar with Python and would welcome the
opportunity to learn Django which appears to be underlie your content
management system. Finally, I noticed your website is hosted by
Linode. I am an experienced Linux and Windows sysadmin. I maintain my
resume in LaTeX on Github and I wrote this cover letter in Markdown
using Emacs.

Conclusion
----------------------------------------

I would like to schedule a time to discuss this position with you in
person. I am equal parts social worker, policy analyst and
programmer. I as comfortable discussing the technology behind your
software stack as I am the impact of the social programs you are
writing about. I genuinely believe I can add significant value to NPP
and I believe I can help take its research to the next level. I can be
contacted at (518) 275 - 5984. I live in Albany, NY so I am available
to meet with you in person at your earliest convenience.

Thank you for your consideration.

-- Andy Choens
